---
title: "418/427"
author: Mika A. Epstein
layout: recaps
permalink: /recaps/csi/:title/
categories: ["Recaps"]
tags: ["CSI: Crime Scene Investigation"]
station: CBS
showname: "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation"
showslug: csi
season: 11
epnum: 10
prodnum: 239
date: 2010-12-09
---

## Synopsis

Christine Moore is shot three times, execution style, and her daughter kidnapped, outside a grocery store. Her husband, Daniel, is an FBI agent. Daniel suspects a pedophile named Rylan Gauss is to blame, after his son Trent (from a previous marriage) is also kidnapped. The CSI's track Gauss to a park, following evidence in his apartment, and barely prevent Agent Moore from killing him. In the course of the investigation, the CSIs find that Moore is getting a divorce, his wife is suing for custody of their daughter and Trent, her 18 year-old stepson. Also Trent is a paranoid schizophrenic. Moore omitted all these facts.

Gauss is determined to be innocent, however this doesn't stop Moore from trying to kill him. Someone beats Moore to it, and Gauss is shot by Trent Moore, who was in the car when his sister was kidnapped. The CSIs manage to find Trent, but his gun was not used to kill Catherine. After Jim Brass confronts Agent Moore, the father confesses to his son, saying he shot Catherine to prevent her from taking Trent away. Trent saw his father kill Catherine, but thought it was Gauss and ran off with the van. Trent hid his sister in a hotel, and then went to kill Gauss.

The daughter is perfectly fine, Trent is checked into a mental institution, and Moore is arrested for killing his wife.

## Review

Sara processes the scene at Trent's house and when Agent Moore becomes unmanageable, kicks him out to stop him from contaminating the scene further.

When they hunt down Trent, Sara insists on talking to him as he 'connects better' with women. She is able to talk Trent down, get the gun from him, and holds him while he cries.

## Notes

* Sara is far more capable of working with schizophrenics and other 'crazy' people.
* Arguably, Sara faces down one of her fears (an armed schizophrenic).
