---
title: Entertainment Weekly
date: 2009-10-14
transcriber: "Mika A. Epstein"
layout: news
permalink: /news/2009/:title/
categories: [News, Articles]
tags: ["2009"]

newstitle: "Exclusive: Jorja Fox makes her 'CSI' return (more) permanent!  "
newsreporter: Michael Ausiello
newssource: The Ausiello Files
newsurl: https://ausiellofiles.ew.com/2009/10/14/exclusive-jorja-fox-makes-her-csi-return-more-permanent/

---

This long-distance marriage thing seems to be working for Grissom and Sara on *CSI*. Exec producer Carol Mendelsohn confirms to me exclusively that Jorja Fox’s five-episode comeback has been extended *indefinitely*.

“We will be seeing a lot more of Jorja,” says Mendelsohn. “The season is about bringing the [*CSI*] family back together again, so [this] was just a natural. Jorja has been the glue that has really helped to reform the bond of our team.”

The exact number of episodes that Fox will appear in is still being worked out, but Mendelsohn says it’s substantially more than five. “From our point of view, the more the better,” she says. “As many episodes as we can have Jorja for we want her for.”

Despite the extension, Mendelsohn says there are no current plans for Grissom (William Petersen) to join his wife in Las Vegas. Upcoming episodes will shed light on the couple’s unconventional living arrangement. “We will address the fact that Grissom is somewhere else and Sara is living in Vegas,” she reveals. “Everyone on the team is a little interested. They’re like, ‘What’s the deal? Grissom’s there, you’re here, how does that work?’

“They are a very modern couple and they have a very healthy relationship,” Mendelsohn elaborates. “They have found a balance in their life that allows them to still feel fulfilled in their marriage and their careers. If it works for them, it works for us.”

[...]
