---
id: 18064
title: '25 Years'
date: '2021-11-20T09:31:00-08:00'
author: 'Mika E. (Ipstenu)'
excerpt: 'Yeah, this site started that long ago!'
layout: post
guid: 'https://jorjafox.net/?p=18064'
permalink: /2021/25-years/
site-sidebar-layout:
    - default
site-content-layout:
    - default
theme-transparent-header-meta:
    - default
googlesitekitpersistent_idea_text:
    - ''
ast-main-header-display:
    - ''
ast-hfb-above-header-display:
    - ''
ast-hfb-below-header-display:
    - ''
ast-hfb-mobile-header-display:
    - ''
site-post-title:
    - ''
ast-breadcrumbs-content:
    - ''
ast-featured-img:
    - ''
footer-sml-layout:
    - ''
adv-header-id-meta:
    - ''
stick-header-meta:
    - ''
header-above-stick-meta:
    - ''
header-main-stick-meta:
    - ''
header-below-stick-meta:
    - ''
spay_email:
    - ''
image: 'https://static.jorjafox.net/wordpress/2015/01/JorjaFox.com_.jpg'
categories:
    - 'The Site'
tags:
    - anniversary
---

<p>November 15th, 1996.</p>

<p>I was in university and had started watching <em>ER</em> because my roommate brought the TV and she loved the show. I'd just spent 3 years in the back of beyond for boarding school and hadn't watched any TV except<em> Star Trek</em> and the Olympics. It was that kind of life back in the 1990s for me. For her though, Thursday was <em>ER</em>, and she let me watch this new show <em>Xena</em> on Sundays, so I didn't mind at all.</p>

<h2 id="h-homework">Homework</h2>

<p>Just over a month and change into the year, my computer class got into websites. 1996, websites were pretty new and novel, and we were all tasked to make a website. Most of us had fiddled around with the free college hosting for ourselves, but this time we had a challenge:</p>

<ol><li>The webpage must include images</li><li>The webpage must contain in-page links, internal (other pages) links, and external links</li><li>The webpage has to be about someone you do not <em>personally<strong> </strong></em>know and have to research</li></ol>

<p>The first two were easy. The last one made me pause. Someone I don't know? Someone I would have to research?</p>

<p>A lot of kids went for historical figures. I scribbled my basic design, and started looking up various people. IMDB was fairly new-ish (started in 1990), and I'd whet my teeth on BBS and other text-only interfaces, so I knew how to do the research part. But I didn't want to do someone where there was <em>easy</em> information. I thought "Wouldn't it be fun to make a page about someone most people <em>don't</em> know."</p>

<p>I didn't know this snarky new intern on <em>ER</em>. Since my roommate taped the show, I watched the first three episodes with her, made a note of her name (Jorj<em>an</em> Fox) and got to work.</p>

<h2 id="h-from-nothing-into-something">From Nothing into Something</h2>

<p>I did well on my project, got a great grade, and thought nothing of it. I also left the page up on my college website because it wasn't like it cost me anything. I'd learned a lot about websites, I'd learned a lot about Jorja (not Jorjan) Fox, and it was a fun experience for me.</p>

<p>Then one day I get an email from someone with some more information. How'd she find me? It turned out my site was the top hit when you looked up 'Jorja Fox' on <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HotBot">HotBot</a>. Back in 1996, HotBot was a search engine. At that time I'd used AltaVista and Lycos, but there indeed was my page, tops on HotBot.</p>

<p>I added the data and didn't think too much about it until the next part of the class turned into "How search engines index." Could I get my little page to rank well on the big guys?</p>

<p>Well. More or less, yes.</p>

<h2 id="h-the-state-of-the-fox">The State of the Fox</h2>

<p>It's been a quarter of a century now, and I probably have more random trivia about Jorja crammed in my head than any other human. And this year is a little more special than many, since we're having Jorja back on TV for <em>CSI: Vegas</em>.</p>

<p>The day the original page went up <em>probably</em> wasn't the 15th, though. I know the month, but since I can't find the old homework notes, I picked the day because of the date the domain (jorjafox.net) was registered: 2000-11-15  -- I bought the domain about 4 years after... who remembers the old domains?</p>

<p>That's also one month into <em>CSI</em> being a thing. I held off until that was a sure-thing, apparently. It was still on Fridays but the signs were strong that <em>CSI</em> would stay the course.</p>

<p>It did and we did and here we are, 21 years (<em>CSI</em>) and 25 years (this site) later.</p>

<h2 id="h-the-future">The Future?</h2>

<p>Same as it ever was. As long as Jorja's out there, doing the work, the site will remain. </p>

<p>I'm kind of excited to see what happens in the next 25 years.</p>
