---
id: 12897
title: '20 Years of Ellen'
date: '2017-04-30T08:00:38-07:00'
author: 'Mika E. (Ipstenu)'
excerpt: 'Two decades ago, "The Attractive Woman" was in a world-changing episode of a sitcom.'
layout: post
guid: 'https://jorjafox.net/?p=12897'
permalink: /2017/20-years-ellen/
enclosure:
    - "https://jorjafoxnet.objects-us-east-1.dream.io/tv/Ellen.mp4\n3616913\nvideo/mp4\n"
astra_style_timestamp_css:
    - '1634396797'
image: 'https://static.jorjafox.net/wordpress/2017/04/ellen-features.jpg'
categories:
    - 'Jorja Fox'
tags:
    - tv
---

Twenty years ago _today_, Ellen Morgan (Ellen DeGeneres' character on her show 'Ellen') came out.

Twenty years ago today, Jorja was a part of TV history by playing the unnamed 'attractive woman at coffee shop.'

In the episode, Ellen senses a kindred spirit when she meets a gay woman, who enlightens her to her own sexual identity. Confused by this startling self-discovery, Ellen seeks the guidance of a therapist and braces herself for yet another moment of truth-telling her friends about this personal revelation.

On the now infamous 'Coming Out' episode of Ellen, Jorja Fox played the uncredited, unnamed, lesbian in the coffee house who walks up to Ellen, sits down next to her, smiles, and proceeds to hit on Ellen's best friend (and good looking friend), Paige. To quote Ellen "Well, it's good to see some things never change."

It was just one line. One small moment. And yet it cemented Jorja's mark in history.

I saw it when it aired (I was still in college) and remember hooting when I spotted her. I'd already made the website as just one, lonely, pretty bland, page. And now it's been 20 years.

[gallery link="file" ids="12950,12951,12949"]

Fun thing. That second photo is from the scene Jorja's in. She was probably there. That last photo is why I still make a joke about toasters.

[video mp4="https://jorjafoxnet.objects-us-east-1.dream.io/tv/Ellen.mp4" width="416" poster="//static.jorjafox.net/wordpress/2017/04/ellen.jpg"][/video]

Happy anniversary to Ellen Degeneres and everyone involved in the history making Puppy Episode. This lesbian is thankful!
