---
title: "Variety"
date: 2016-03-07
transcriber: "Mika A. Epstein"
layout: news
newsyear: "2016"
newstitle: "Jorja Fox Lists 1930s Mediterranean in Los Angeles’s Silver Lake Community"
newsreporter: "Mark David"
newssource: "Variety"
newsurl: https://variety.com/2016/dirt/real-estalker/jorja-fox-lists-silver-lake-house-1201724559/
---

**SELLER:** Jorja Fox
**LOCATION:** Los Angeles, CA
**PRICE:** $1.85 million
**SIZE:** (approx.) 3,600 square feet, 5 bedrooms, 3 bathrooms

**YOUR MAMA’S NOTES:** A well-maintained, circa 1937 Mediterranean with loads of intact original architectural details in the hipster-chic Silver Lake area of Los Angeles — owned, according to our resources, by actress and producer Jorja Fox — has come available at $1.85 million. Miz Fox isn’t a tabloid superstar or even a gossip glossy regular, and we’d bet the farm she prefers it that way. She is, none-the-less, a veteran staple of the medical drama and police procedural genres. Prominent recurring roles on “ER” and “The West Wing” and a guest turn on “Law &Order” led to a recently ended 15-year run in a pivotal role on the internationally popular “CSI.” Along the way, multi-talented Miz Fox co-founded Honeypot Productions, an experimental theater company in Los Angeles, appeared in the historic 1997 “coming out” episode on “Ellen,” and produced two animal-oriented documentaries (“How I Became and Elephant” and “Lion Ark”). She also produced the short-lived, limited run 2007 one-woman musical in Los Angeles, “Stay Forever: The Life and Music of Dusty Springfield,” that years later was remounted in a revised, expanded version Off Broadway as “Forever Dusty.”

Property records suggest the Silver Lake property was purchased by the gap-toothed former fashion model and staunch vegetarian in May 2004 for $1.2 million, and current listing details show the two-story residence, set high and privately on a street-to-street hillside parcel in a quiet pocket of the still artsy and increasingly pricey community, has a total of five bedrooms and three bathrooms in about 3,600 square feet. For the lazy and/or infirm, it’s two forbidding flights from the street to an inset porch where Miz Fox — or, perhaps, a professional stager — placed a pillow-laden wooden bench where one can take a well-earned breather after the long hike up and/or take in the lovely, over-the-rooftops view the elevated perch allows. It’s one step down from the small — some might call it uncomfortably cramped — pentagram-shaped entrance vestibule to the well-proportioned but far short of gigantic 24-foot-long living room that sports honey-hued narrow-gauge hardwood floors, probably original wood-framed casement windows, a fireplace with red brick surround, ceiling beams dressed up with carved corbels, and a towering arched window that, like the front porch, provides a panoramic view that sweeps over the surrounding rooftops and encompasses the Ivanhoe Reservoir, the Griffith Observatory and the Hollywood sign. The dining room, 17-feet long and far from square with seven sides, links through to a much more traditionally four-walled breakfast room. Black ceramic countertops on the built-in buffet in the breakfast room are repeated in the adjoining galley-style kitchen that features original tile on the walls and backsplashes along with pale and prosaic raised panel wood cabinets and up-to-date, medium-grade stainless steel appliances.

The three upper-floor bedrooms, each behind an intricately inlaid wood door, open off a double wide and sky-lit, eight-sided corridor that features built-in linen cabinets and built-in desk area. The larger two bedrooms, one with a bay window that looks out to the backyard, both have generous, windowed walk-in closets and share a spacious and restored vintage bathroom. Since we’re an easy sucker for a little bit of authentic patina in a home, this property gossip is pleased to see the original tile work was retained although we admit the flesh color of the tiles isn’t optimal. The smallest of the three bedrooms on the upper floor has a petite walk-in closet and direct access to a small and well-maintained if perfectly ordinary bathroom that also opens off the mud room behind the kitchen. The lower level, the legality of which is to be verified by the buyer according to online marketing materials, comes in at about 1,100 square feet and includes a family room/media lounge with separate exterior entrance and a linear kitchenette with two-drawer dishwasher, refrigerated drawer, and a slender, under-counter wine fridge. Two more bedrooms, one painted deep turquoise with walk-in closet and the other lined with decidedly contemporary built-in wardrobes, share a hall bathroom.

From the upper level of the residence one must pass less than elegantly through the mud room to access the walled and terraced backyard where a lower patio has basket weave pattern red brick terracing and an upper level deck, backed by a tall privacy wall and a vine-draped pergola, overlooks a koi pond that waterfalls down to a second koi pond. A detached structure at the upper rear of the property contains a two-car garage and a notably roomy if somewhat inconveniently located laundry room.

Our research suggests Miz Fox has decamped Silver Lake for the western end of the Los Feliz neighborhood where in May 2014 she dropped $2.825 million on an formidably boxy, mid-’70s red-brick contemporary pavilion that opens through an double-height arched colonnade to a stone-tiled plaza and swimming pool and, some persnickety people we know might stamp their feet and complain, looks a tetch more like a Midwestern bank branch than a private residence in Southern California.
