---
title: EW.com
date: 2008-10-16
transcriber: "Mika A. Epstein"
layout: news
permalink: /news/2008/:title/
categories: [News, Articles]
tags: ["2008"]

newstitle: "'CSI': The Dearly Departed  "
newsreporter: Lynette Rice
newssource: EW.com
newsurl: http://www.ew.com/ew/article/0,,20233861,00.html

---

[...] I wasn't surprised to learn that so many of you got choked up at the gut-wrenching scenes from Warrick's funeral, but I was taken aback by some commentary regarding Sara's appearance -- namely, whether or not she was with child, and if her condition would eventually explain her abrupt decision to leave Las Vegas last season. All I can say is -- good God, no. Look, I hated her poofy dress (and the curls she wore with it) probably as much as the next fan, but never in my wildest dreams would I have considered she was trying to cover up a secret pregnancy. That's why I was relieved to learn from a CSI insider that no such treacly twist is in the cards for Sara -- who, based on last night's episode, has once again abandoned her beloved for destinations unknown (more on that later).

[...]

But those cases paled in comparison to a third story involving a man named Tom Adler, who unplugged his comatose wife. It's this sad case of euthanasia (and, if you really think about it, the confession from that murderous teenager) that seemed to offer some insight into where Gil and Sara are headed. First, we have the teenage boy who exclaimed that his cougar lover "promised me everything and took it all away!" (Hmm, might that also be another way of demonstrating that Sara promised Gil a lifetime of happiness before she took it all away by leaving town?) And then, we were treated to this eye-opening exchange between Gil and Sara as they sparred over Tom's decision to kill his vegetable spouse. Gil: "Sooner or later a relationship...withers. You get angry. Sometimes, you need more than the safety of knowing that you are not alone." Sara: "Then he should have just walked away." Gil: "Maybe he couldn't. Maybe he needed her to leave him." Sara (first pausing for dramatic effect): "Who are we talking about right now?"

Unfortunately, I never got the response I craved; Sara packed her bags and hit the road again, with no clue as to when she'll be back. The possibilities are limitless, like this clever (if idealistic) suggestion from poster Cathy Tockstein: "When Gil and Sara leave Las Vegas, do you think they will try to get custody of Warrick's son to raise him as their own child?" That's assuming she and Gil reunite at all. Personally, my guess is that Sara finally figured out that her boyfriend was an emotional deadbeat (Daddy smacked him silly during his already troubled youth!) and she finally gave up on their maddening backroom romance. But hell, I could just be reaching. [...]
